OSDOCS-5265: Greenboot for MicroShift (#55833)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/microshift-greenboot-dir-structure.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * microshift_running applications/microshift-greenboot.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="microshift-greenboot-dir-structure_{context}"]

> = How greenboot uses directories to run scripts

Reviewer: Isn't this documented in the RHEL docs? Maybe we can just focus on how MicroShift integrates with Greenboot here in the MicroShift docs?

Author: I am not familiar with the RHEL docs. Whatever is specific to MicroShift is fine with me, as long as there is enough context without a customer having to leap to another docset.

//Q: Are these correct for MicroShift? If not, what is the file structure and associated behavior we use?
Health check scripts are available in read-only directories in RPM-OSTree systems. Four directories run greenboot scripts. Within each directory, scripts run in order of filename. Keep this in mind when you configure them for your workloads.

> 

Reviewer 2: "Scripts run in order of filename"? You mean alphabetical order?

Author: Is there a better way to state in which order in which files are read? How detailed do we need to be?

When booting from an updated operating system, greenboot will run the scripts in the `required.d` and `wanted.d` directories. If any of the scripts fail in the `required.d` directory, greenboot will run any scripts present in the `red.d` directory, then reboot.

* `/etc/greenboot/check/required.d` contains the health checks that must not fail. If the scripts fail, greenboot initiates a rollback. The `40_microshift_running_check.sh` health check script for {product-title} is installed into this directory and is not executed during the system boot.

> //Q: Can the script be configured to always run on boot as a custom default setting? Is that something we encourage?

Reviewer 2: The script is always executed on boot by the greenboot health check procedure.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * microshift_running applications/microshift-greenboot.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="microshift-greenboot-dir-structure_{context}"]

> = How greenboot uses directories to run scripts

Author: @dhellmann We actually do, for users that are unfamiliar with it. The answer is not to just provide a collection of links. We can add links to RHEL, but basic information as to what this is and does should stay in MicroShift, since this is an an optional component for it. This PR is/was nearly complete, as @ggiguash and I did meet and discuss the content.

> = How greenboot uses directories to run scripts

Reviewer: I don't know where we draw the line. If this is the usual approach, let's move ahead. If the MicroShift team starts receiving support requests for greenboot we may need to revisit.

> = How greenboot uses directories to run scripts

Author: I think we draw the line at giving the essential "what it is" and "how to use it." This PR looks long, but in the scope of docs, it's pretty basic. Docs gets a lot of bugs of the "I don't know what this is" nature. So I think we have opposing forces at work and we have to figure out the narrow path between. I agree, let's see what customer feedback we get and proceed from there.

//
// * microshift_running applications/microshift-greenboot.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="microshift-greenboot-dir-structure_{context}"]
= How greenboot uses directories to run scripts

Health check scripts run from four `/etc/greenboot` directories. These scripts run in alphabetical order. Keep this in mind when you configure the scripts for your workloads.

When the system starts up, greenboot will run the scripts in the `required.d` and `wanted.d` directories. Depending on the outcome of those scripts, greenboot continues the start-up or attempts a rollback as follows:

. System as expected: When scripts in the `required.d` directory are successful, greenboot runs any scripts present in the `/etc/greenboot/green.d` directory.

. System trouble: If any of the scripts in the `required.d` directory fail, greenboot will run any pre-rollback scripts present in the `red.d` directory, then restart the system.

[NOTE]
====
Greenboot redirects script and health check output to the system log. When you are logged in, a "message of the day" provides the overall system health output.
====

[id="greenboot-directories-details_{context}"]
== Greenboot directories details

> Returning a non-zero sum for any script means that script has failed. Greenboot retries scripts before declaring a failure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Returning a non-zero exit code from any script means that script has failed. Greenboot reboots the system a few times to retry the scripts before attempting to roll back to the previous version.
```

* `/etc/greenboot/check/required.d` contains the health checks that must not fail. If the scripts fail, greenboot retries them three times by default. You can configure the number of retries.

> //Q: How do users configure the number of retries?

Reviewer 2: Retries can be configured in /etc/greenboot/greenboot.conf by setting GREENBOOT_MAX_BOOTS=5 for example. The default number of reboots is 3.

[NOTE]
====
Greenboot redirects script and health check output to the system log. When you are logged in, a daily message provides the overall system health output.
====

[id="greenboot-directories-details_{context}"]
== Greenboot directories details

Returning a nonzero exit code from any script means that script has failed. Greenboot restarts the system a few times to retry the scripts before attempting to roll back to the previous version.

* `/etc/greenboot/check/required.d` contains the health checks that must not fail.

** If the scripts fail, greenboot retries them three times by default. You can configure the number of retries in the `/etc/greenboot/greenboot.conf` file by setting the `GREENBOOT_MAX_BOOTS` parameter to the desired number of retries.

** After all retries fail, greenboot automatically initiates a rollback if one is available. If a rollback is not available, the system log output shows that manual intervention is required.

** The `40_microshift_running_check.sh` health check script for {product-title} is installed into this directory.

> * `/etc/greenboot/check/wanted.d` contains health scripts that may fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `/etc/greenboot/check/wanted.d` contains health scripts that are allowed to fail without causing the system to be rolled back.
```
